I bow to all the seekers of truth.
What is truth? We do not know.
We have our own concept about truth.
With our mental projections
we think truth is that we are human beings,
that we have to live on this earth,
look after our children,
look after the family,
live well and die, that’s all.
We do not know the truth is
that we are the Spirit.
That we have experienced
yesterday, that you are the Spirit.
But we do not know also an other thing
that God has created this universe
and created you with very great care
and with tremendous love.
Truth is love because that’s the fact:
that because he loved us so much,
he really loved us so much
that he created us on this earth and
evolved us to this state of a human being.
We take him for granted,
everything that he has done for us.
We have no idea as to how much care
he has taken to develop us out
of the evolutionary process
to this state of a human being
which is the epitome of his Creation.
When Eve and Adam made a mistake
they really gave a big trouble to the divine,
because if they had not made a mistake
and had confidence and
gratitude for the love of God
they would have not
committed such a mistake
is to know about the knowledge.
The knowledge which they wanted
to know through their ego,
knowledge that they wanted to
know through their efforts.
Because of this simple
mistake that they committed
we had to undergo all these processes.
That’s how we had to go through
the evolutionary process,
come to this state and become human beings,
understanding that we have
to become the Spirit.
But at that state if you had listened
and had faith in God’s love,
we would have been much better off.
There would have been no
problem of evolution or anything,
because it is very easy for God
to create you as whatever way he wants.
But he had to make you pass through
all this evolutionary process
through your own projections,
through your own misunderstandings,
through your own trials and errors,
till you reached the state
that is a human being.
So now no more mistakes
have to be committed.
Now we have reached the state
where we can become the Spirit.
But here also, as the human nature is
that we always try to do things
which we are not supposed to do.
Moses came on this Earth to teach us
that we should do not do these....
Ten Commandments are
not to be crossed over.
He gave us the Commandments that
we should lead a life of balance.
But it seems that the balance
that he tried to create within us
is being completely flouted,
challenged and absolutely
given up by many human beings.
They don’t think it is necessary to have
those Ten Commandments,
which were to maintain our valency
in our being
so that we can ascend, because
without a balance we cannot ascend.
That’s a simple thing we must understand.
We do not understand many things,
but we must understand one thing simple
is that, that without a balance
we cannot ascend.
If you have an airplane if it has no balance
it cannot ascend. In the same way
you have to have that balance within you.
Then people tried to teach in balance
in various types of their incarnations,
various....   various types of their manifestations.
But whenever they tried to do something
people just did the opposite of it.
As I told you about Christ
how they never listened to what he said
and started a very organised religion
paying no attention whatsoever to
self-actualisation or self-realisation
which he talked again and again.
And those who tried to use that
self-opinionated themselves and
said that, “We are twice born.”
Like that we have been deceiving
ourselves all the time,
because you must know this intellect
has a capacity to cheat to itself,
it can cheat, it can give you explanations.
Be careful about it! That it is
so sharp that it can cheat you.
It’s like a computer, which if it
is overgrown it can destroy us.
In the same way our own
intellect can destroy us
and give us wrong ideas, by which we really
try to destroy ourselves day by day.
Under these circumstances one
thing one has to remember:
that God Almighty has loved us,
in his love he has created us.
He loves us, he is the Father
who is the last word
as far as the father’s
affections are concerned.
He is the greatest of greatest
compassionate father,
who wants you to
enter into his kingdom
and enjoy the bliss of his creation.
He’s not created you just to be wasted,
to be frittered away,
to be thrown away,
to be in the hell all your lives.
He has made you, to respect you,
to love you and to give
you what you deserve.
The problem is we do not believe in
ourselves, we do not love ourselves.
How can we then love
God who has created us?
This is the biggest problem. And when we
love ourselves we become really selfish.
And when we become selfish
we destroy ourselves more,
because that is like
love-hate relationship
I say,  that actually you
hate yourself to be selfish.
Because selfishness
one can never enjoy.
It is a joyless pursuit.
That’s why one has to understand, that
first and foremost understanding
should come to us that God
has created this Universe,
the whole thing for us;
and he has created this
beautiful instrument within us
to have our second birth, to know him,
to know his greatness,
to know his powers
and to be the master of
those powers that he had.
Any father or mother is always happy
when he can give away all that he has.
So this is why we do not rely on him,
we rely upon ourselves.
But as long as we rely upon ourselves,
we live in the realm of cause and effect,
we cannot get out of it,
we cannot jump out of it.
To jump out of the realm
of cause and effect
one must first of all know
fully well that it is God’s love,
in any case he is going to save us,
he is going to look after us,
he is going to worry about us.
Believe that he exists as a living God.
It is very difficult for
ego-oriented society
to accept such a concept, that
there is God still living, when
science says, "There is no God."
What is the limitation of science?
We do not know. I was
myself studying medicine
and I was surprised they had no idea
about parasympathetic nervous system.
They cannot explain many things, so
many things they just cannot explain.
Whatever they see also
they cannot explain.
We really cannot explain
otherwise also anything.
If I ask you how a flower is made, like a
rose on a particular tree, can you explain?
If I ask you how seeds sprouts,
when you place it with the
Mother Earth, can you explain?
Can you explain any living thing
like, we can say, a child who is an
Australian will be born to an Australian?
Who does all these different kinds of choices?
Who works out all these things,
thousands and thousands, millions and
millions and billions and billions,
every year, every time?
What is that power?
Let us open our heart to that great
power that is the love of God.
We in our ego have become so small
that we have denied his powers
and we do not want to
accept that he exists.
This is a very wrong thing. Of
course, to add to that as I said,
there are so many fake
people in the name of God;
there are so many fake organisations;
there are so many fake theories and
ideologies and philosophies
that a person gets really surprised
that these people talk
of such big things,
about God’s love while they
are so selfish, so low,
so narrow-minded.
How can these fanatics be near God?
So they should not
malign the name of God
because whatever is wrong is wrong.
But they are using the
name of God because that
name is such that it is so pure.
Anybody who wants to
do something wrong
always takes up a role of a very saintly person,
because then only he can
hide that ugliness outside.
So we have to understand
that the love of God within ourselves
which works out beautiful things
also works out this Realisation.
It is he who works out this Realisation.
It is not that we are working it out;
it is going to be worked out by his power,
because he wants you to enter
into the Kingdom of God.
The Kingdom of God in our
being is in the limbic area,
as you see here on top
of the Agnya Chakra.
This is the Gate of
Christ and beyond that
is the Kingdom of God
where we have to enter,
this Kundalini has to enter there.
And when she enters
that through it,
it pierces and comes out
into the subtle, gets
connected to the subtle
and then you start feeling the
All-pervading power of God’s love.
That’s the compassion, it is the
love that is God, that is truth.
But you’ll be amazed that this power
has all the powers in it embedded.
For example it has all the powers
which we call vital
powers or Prana Shakti
which is on the right
hand side, prana shakti,
by which we exist,
by which we act,
by which we work out all our desires.
And on the left hand is the power of desire,
that is also in it. That’s why
when you become that power
then what happens, your desires are automatically fulfilled.
You don’t have to desire even, without
desiring you’ll be surprised that
you have to have something
which comes before you.
It can be explained if you see
the lives of many great men.
They lived with very little things
but they were such satisfied souls
and they never bothered about
what is going to happen to them,
how they are going to be fulfilled,
how things are going to work out.
They never planned all these things,
everything came their way and they did it.
They knew what was going to happen,
what was their purpose of life
and what they had to achieve.
For incarnations like Christ he
knew he was to be crucified,
he knew he had to be dead
because this narrow gate has to be
crossed
and that has to be crossed only by
the energy itself which we
call the energy of Pranava,
the energy of Chaitanya, the energy
of Logos, as they call it Ruh
is the energy which is just a
sound,
what we call as Omkara.
That energy it was
which came on this earth
and that’s why he could
walk on the water,
he could walk because
he was just that energy
and he could walk. He had no problem
about walking on the water
because he was just an energy
forming a body.
That is the reason also he could
resurrect because he
was just an energy,
he was not matter.
Because he was matter he could resurrect.
And this is one thing,
was said by Shri Krishna
before Christ came onto this earth
that this energy does not die,
it cannot be killed, it cannot be perished,
it is eternal. And this eternal
life came on this earth as Christ
as described by Shri Krishna.
Shri Krishna was another incarnation
who did so much to our awareness
that he developed this centre within
us which we call as Vishuddhi chakra.
I need not today tell you
about all these incarnations,
how they are related to each other and
how they work it out because
you’ll find out from the books
and other Sahaja Yogis all the
details about how they work out,
how they are joined together
how they are one with each other,
how they are in concord and
they had no problem about it.
And also about all other
angels who reside within ourselves.
Now for example on the right hand side
you see the yellow line – this is
where the angel we
call Gabriel resides,
he’s called in the...  Let it be
(Shri Mataji speaks to someone on the side)
It's all right they can see.
Which is called
in Sanskrit as Hanumana,
that is on the right hand side.
The left hand side power
is looked after by another angel
whom we call as Saint Michael
and in Sanskrit he is called as Bhairava.
All these exist there.
Now if I say that somebody
exists, say here –
Vishuddhi, Shri Krishna
or if I say that Christ exists here,
how are you to believe?
We have to now prove it
and you can now prove it by Kundalini action.
When the Kundalini rises you didn’t
feel the raising of the Kundalini
because there was no obstruction.
But now you will gradually
find that Kundalini will
again settle back and you’ll
start feeling your obstructions
wherever you have. That’s
why at least a month
is needed for you to release
the energy in such a way
that the Kundalini really gets fixed up
and you get established.
Now when the Kundalini rises
then supposing it is
stuck up here [Agnya]
then you to say the Lord’s Prayer
whether you are a Hindu, Muslim or a Christian,
you have to say the Lord’s Prayer
for this Kundalini to go up.
Supposing it is stuck here [Vishuddhi]
then you have to take the
name of Shri Krishna.
But only a realised soul can do it.
If a non-realised soul takes
the name has no effect,
because you are not yet
connected with those deities.
So many people who just
go and pray to God,
“Oh, God, do this for me!
Oh, God, do that for me!”
always go on ordering God must know
that God is not in your pocket,
you have to enter into his Kingdom.
Say now you are in the
Kingdom of New Zealand,
so your government is
looking after you.
In the same way when you
enter into the Kingdom of God
then only he is going
to look after you.
Only by praying to God or
saying “do this” and “do that”
why should he do it?
Because you do not have not
the connection with him.
You haven’t done the protocol of
meeting the Divine within you.
And when that works out,
when that divinity starts
working within you
then you are amazed that
how powerful you are,
how many powers rise within you
and how you become a great personality.
And this is an actualization;
this is a reality
which must be established.
It is not that you can just
believe what I am saying or talking
but you can see for
yourself that it works,
it works. It not only works but it
establishes your complete faith in God
and this faith in God is not a blind faith
like people talk about God, God, God
and there is nothing to be known about.
Every word that I’ve said you can verify.
For example, if you put
your hands towards me
and ask a question,
“Mother, is there God?”
Ask the question three times,
if you are a realised soul
you’ll get lots of vibrations,
just like a computer.
But supposing you ask a question
about a person who is not good,
who is not godly, “Is that person a saint?”
you might even get a little
blister on your hand.
It’s so much there that
your hands feel it,
start speaking. But you have
to master the technique.
You have to master the
technique and which will take
not more than a month as I said.
It’s not a course but it’s a
state of mind where you reach.
So a Self-realisation
takes place. What happens?
First of all, you know about yourself,
yourself means your centres;
first of all, to begin with,
that is you start
feeling your own centres.
You start understanding
what’s wrong with you.
For example, if somebody says,
“Mother, it’s wrong here,
something.” That means
the person has ego but he
won’t say that he has got ego.
What he says, “Mother, my
Agnya chakra is catching.”
If he says, “My Agnya
chakra is catching.”
means his ego is overlapping
so you have to turn the Agnya
chakra and the ego comes down.
When we do not forgive others,
it is because we are adamant
and we are in an ego state.
But supposing we forgive that
person, ego just drops down.
Because we have a hurt ego,
we are hurt by a person,
our ego is hurt, it is bloated up
and we cannot forgive
because it is too much,
you cannot bear it.
But if you just forgive
the whole thing drops out and
you feel absolutely relaxed
and you start feeling the vibrations,
the cool breeze on your hands
This is what is the first
thing that happens to you
as Dr Warren has told you that
you become collectively conscious,
means you become. Again to
understand the word “become”,
means that on your
central nervous [system]
you start feeling the
vibrations of another person.
Now the person who is
not a realised soul
if you ask him to put
his hand on your head
he won’t feel the cool breeze
but a person who is a realised soul
has developed that experiencing
power on his hands,
he can feel the real cool breeze.
Maybe sometimes a person
who is not realised
is sensitive person, might be.
But the amount of feeling, the
person who has experienced the Self
will have will not be discernible in
a person who’s not got Realisation.
Now this feeling
that we have of the vibrations
is related to the truth.
So now in the beginning,
as I told you, I had seven hippies and
one sensible man with me
in England for four years
and I was struggling with them.
And this gentleman who
was a sensible man
was very much a doubting
type, a doubting Thomas
and he said to me …
Now he is a great Sahaja
Yogi but at that time
so he said, “Alright, Mother, I want to know
what’s wrong with my mother... with my father.”
So I told him, “It’s very easy.
You just put your hands like
this and ask the question.”
He asked the question,
“What’s wrong with my father?”
and he got a burning on this
finger here [right index].
These are the centres of your father.
Gone down with very bad bronchitis,
this was my synthesis.
He telephones to his father,
the mother came on the
phone and she said,
“Your father is down with
very bad bronchitis.”
He was amazed, he
said, “Now what to do?”
I said, “You can cure him, there is a way.”
So we have a way of giving vibrations
to that centre of his father
sitting down in London and
the father was in Scotland.
After half an hour the
father got up from the bed
and says, “I don’t know
what has happened.
I am feeling perfectly alright.”
So he just laughed
and that’s made him
understand that there
is a telecommunication
which we cannot see
in the universe which works out things.
But we have to be there to do it,
things and we take it for granted.
But if you show it to a
villager he cannot believe it
and when he’ll see it he’ll
say, “It is very fantastic.
How it is happening?”
But you have to put it to the
mains otherwise you don’t see it.
In the same way you are to be put to the
energy mains and so that you start feeling,
you starting getting the full
answer to your questions.
But the best part of it that
if you see, say, a television.
Now you watch some
television, some drama and...
but you don’t see that they... the
act … and do something to you.
But here when you just
project your attention
to anyone and give it
a little protection,
you’re amazed that these
vibrations act on that person
as if the actors come
out of the television
and try to help you out. It’s so wonderful
as that and this has happened,
it is worth trying,
you have those powers.
You know that our
powers that we know
as human beings are so limited,
are so little, like an iceberg
which is a very wee bit comes out of it,
the rest is immersed inside. In the
same way our own powers are immersed.
So the first, the power of
collective consciousness,
that one gets. And it is to be practised,
to be understood in its all aspects.
You become part and parcel
of the Primordial Being.
If you become part and parcel if my
hand, if supposing my finger is paining
I rub it off and it is all right,
I have no obligation to
it, it’s my own finger.
When everybody is a part
and parcel of your being
who is the other? If you
are helping somebody
it’s not, you are
helping yourself because
it’s you who you are helping.
So the idea of ego doesn’t come
that, I have tried to help this man.
I’ve tried to do for this man.
I’ve done this for him.
None of these ideas!
And the other one also doesn’t feel
that kind of a burden of obligation.
So what will you pay? What
will you pay to this finger
if this hand rubs this?
It’s just automatic and just your own.
That is the expansion of your being.
That’s the expansion of your heart,
that’s the expansion of your awareness, of
your chitta as we call it, of your attention.
Attention becomes so much expanded.
Like my granddaughter, who was
only about four years of age
and we had taken her to the airport
and she was very busy like this
so we ask her, “What are you doing?”
I said. Mother couldn’t
understand. She said,
“I am trying to tie,
tie up these people.
They have very scattered brains.
I’m trying to tie up their brains,
it’s very scattered brains, all
of them, running up and down.”
Which is a fact and she was so busy
and nobody could talk to her because
she said, “I am busy just now.
Don’t talk to me, I am very busy.”
And a child like that age
could say all those things
and the truth is so
evident in their minds.
Another child of mine who is a grandchild
and who is another realised soul, all my
four grandchildren are born realised
and tremendous people,
so she went to Ladakh once and
there was one lama fellow.
These lamas are another hawks and
he was sitting there with a big dress.
Everybody was touching his feet
and because, after all,
everybody is touching the feet
so my daughter and
son-in-law felt embarrassed
they also went and
touched the feet.
She couldn’t bear it.
She couldn’t bear that.
She went and stood before
him with her both hands,
she locked them at the back
and she stood up and she said,
“What do you mean? Because
you are wearing this big dress
– we call it choga, is a big dress –
and because you have shaved your head you
think you are a realised soul? You are not.
You have no business to ask
people to touch your feet.”
Such a little girl like that stood up.
And once I remember another time
we had a big program in India
where there is a master who died.
I think you must have
heard his name also,
Raman Maharshi, and on his death they
invited me as a chief guest, I was to speak.
But we had other horrible
people also there;
somebody from Rama Krishna
ashram and this and that,
they were sitting. So one fellow
with the Rama Krishna ashram
was wearing a red robe
and sitting there.
So one of my son-in-law and
other people were in the group,
they were sitting on the first
row – the grandchildren,
and suddenly one of them
got up and he said,
“Grandmother, please ask this man
in the maxi to get out. He
is giving all heat to us.”
And everybody smiled and laughed
because they were many
Sahaja Yogis there who came
and they just stand next to me, that
get rid of this fellow with the maxi out
because he is too much of heat.
And this fellow thought no
end of himself, you see.
He thought he was a great man because
he was wearing a maxi in that colour
and he was giving a big lecture without
understanding what he was talking.
Just he was going round
and round the bush
without knowing that he is
not even a realised soul
and he has no business
to talk about God.
So the children who are realised souls
are today born in every country,
I know in Inver, I saw the other day
going through the market and many
children who are born realised.
But if the parents are not realised souls
they will never understand their children
or their grandchildren and it may be that
you may really destroy their sensitivity.
So it is important that the elders
must have a full understanding
of their children,
the next generation, which is
going to be very powerful.
You will see these children
when they willl grow
they will understand Sahaja
Yoga and Kundalini so well
that you’ll be amazed.
For example a child puts his finger
or a thumb in the mouth people
say it’s something to do with sex
as Mr. Freud  was
nothing but a sex point.
He was not a human being
even also, I think.
So it’s not the case.
The child, if it is a realised soul,
is pointing it out to the chakras.
If a child comes here,
he is a realised soul
and if somebody’s suffering
from a particular trouble,
he’d immediately put that
particular finger in the mouth.
Even if you have ten children
and tie up their eyes
and ask them, “What’s
wrong with this fellow?”
they’ll put out one finger or two fingers,
whatever are burning.
Because it is such a actual
experience of that person’s chakras
and they will immediately
say these two are burning
or these three are burning
and all of them will
say the same thing.
So it is the knowledge of your
own central nervous system.
It is not a knowledge which
is given to you in your brain
or just to
be pushed into your ideas,
it’s a fact, factual
thing that you know.
Like you all know this is wood,
all know this is wood, made of wood.
In the same way you
will know the truth
because you become absolutely
the absolute,
the absolute. You know the absolute,
there is no more any relative world left,
you don’t live in the relative world.
This may be good and
that may be good.
This could be alright or
that could be alright.
That doesn’t come. Whatever is good
is good, whatever is bad is bad.
You don’t have to even
think of temptations,
your temptations drop out very fast.
All your habits drop out very fast.
For example, Brian himself
who spoke first of here
was a smoker and
used to smoke a lot and he had a
very bad trouble with the smoking.
And next day he dropped the smoking,
next day, you won’t believe,
he dropped his smoking.
He had other problem
that he had crutches
and  he just could not walk
even an inch without the crutches,
hanging onto the crutches like that,
only with the crutches, he
could not move his legs at all.
Today he is standing on his legs
and you see he is walking.
This I did not do anything.
It just worked through
the power of your Self.
Your Self, itself, cures you
and gives you powers to cure others.
But in the beginning you
don’t have faith in yourself.
Even If I say that you can cure others
you will not cure. This is a big problem
that one doesn’t assume
the powers that they have,
doesn’t believe in them.
Once I was travelling by a ship
and there was the captain
who got his Realisation
and they told me that there is one fellow
who has got pneumonia because he
entered into the freezing room,
they have a freezer, just like a room.
And he entered into it suddenly so he
got pneumonia and he was gasping and
they had to send an SOS
to get some doctor.
So I told the captain
I can go and cure him.
He said, “No, Mother, why should
you go?” After all, you see,
I was the wife of the.., you see,  owners
and all that so they
found it was too much
for me to go down four,  five stories
to the freezing room
to safe this fellow. So
I said, “Alright. Captain,
you are a realised soul,
why don’t you do it?
A simple thing, simple
method I’ll tell you
and he’ll be alright.”
He said, “How can I?
I am not … I am just … Yesterday
only I got my Realisation,
how can I?”
I said, “Alright. Now he is
going to die if you don’t do it.
So please try, if it doesn’t
work out I’ll come down.”
So he went down, out of that
compassion he went down.
And he came up laughing,
“Mother, I’ve cured him.
He’s alright.”
I said, “Now, please believe that
you are now a yogi,
you are a realised soul.”
We do not believe in ourselves.
We doubt ourselves more
than anybody else.
And this is the biggest problem
that we want to have a guru
because we think, “Alright.
We’ll believe in this
person. He goes to hell,
we go to hell with him.” If he goes to
heaven we’ll go to heaven with him.
Pay some money and have
somebody on whom we can rely.
But now rely upon yourself.
Stand on your own feet
because you are the enlightened ones.
You are the Buddhas – you are the
ones who have achieved enlightenment.
Don’t depend on anybody else,
there is no guru needed, you yourself can
know through vibrations what has to be done.
Like one gentleman who got his Realisation,
he had no job.
So he said, “Mother,
what should I do?”
I said, “Why don’t you become
an interior decorator?”
He was quite surprised,
he said, “Mother, I’ve done
economics but I’ve never done this.
I don’t know a wood from
another wood. What am I to do?”
I said, “Just see vibrations and do it.”
And he became a very rich man,
he’ll be coming now to Australia
to join us in Sydney.
But this is what happens that once
you have vibrations
immediately you know
what is to be done,
what will create
the right thing for you.
This is absolutely
easy to do if you assume your powers.
But if you are diffident,
“Oh, how can I do it?
It’s better Mother does it
or somebody else does it.”
then it doesn’t work out.
But if you say, “Alright.
I am a yogi and I can do it.”
You see these gurus are
not even realised souls.
Some of them are coming from jail,
they have no bona fides,
they are horrid people
and imagine what organisations
they have had built,
thousands and thousands of
people, just like this.
A servant coming out of some place
becomes a big guru in
Germany or somewhere,
owns 59 Rolls-Royces.
What do you say to such a thing?
Because they are bumptious.
You are not to be bumptious but believe
that now you have got your powers.
And when you have
your powers use them
because that’s the greatest joy.
I mean, you see your
compassion working it out
when you see people
get their Realisation.
Every Realisation you feel as if you have
made one flower into a fruit.
And you feel so surprised first
at yourself and then at the divine Grace
that he has made you so great and
you have been not aware of it,
that you can do living work.
These vibrations when
given to the plants,
supposing a plant is
dying. Like in
Geneva we have a very
beautiful ashram
where they had a
tree which was dying
and they were about to cut it out. They
said, “Let’s try the vibrations on it.”
And when I went there the tree was lush,
beautiful, but best was they
had such huge big, big
cherries for me to eat.
And this was the first time, they
said, when we gave vibrations
and such big cherries
came and so many that
there were at least five
hundred people all together.
We all ate and ate and ate and
it would not finish. And I like cherries
and they said, “Mother, you
better take it with you
to England.” I said,
“That’s too much now.”
They said, “Still they
are not going to finish
so better take some of
them with you to England.”
Especially Switzerland is a place where
they don’t grow very big cherries
but such big big cherries,
you see, and some cherries that I’ll say that
I’ve never seen such nice and tasty cherries.
I’ve told you if you give
these vibrations to anything,
like a vegetable, plant
or any crop, the crops
multiply in its production.
Not only that but the crops
are not hybrid crops,
without giving any fertilizer
or giving any hybrid....using
the hybrid thing,
you can use just the ordinary
crops... seeds and
can work it out.
Now what has happened: by the
use of these ordinary seeds,
the seeds have become weak
and that’s why we have
to have hybrid things,
artificially strengthened seeds.
But when you give
vibrations to these crops
what happens – that these crops
get the vital energy within themselves
and they become like original ones.
And they start producing
tremendous amount of grains.
There is a university
in Rahuri where people
have experimented in
the agriculture field.
I was told that New Zealand
is an agricultural land.
We have not to play into the hands
of any big organizations
who are selling us
these hybrid seeds
which cannot be used
if the plant even gives
you any amount of seeds we
cannot use them for replanting.
But the seeds which are natural
if you vibrate them and
put them in the soil
you’ll be surprised you’ll get sometimes
the results are at least ten times more.
One gentleman in
Austria has experimented
with that and he has shown
pictures and photographs
and we have sent them to India.
India is a better country
to understand Sahaja Yoga
because even the
government understands,
even the public understands and
everybody is helping us very much.
In Delhi university we have got
a PhD,
after doing MBBS they have to do PhD
a doctorate in Sahaja Yoga.
Even in London we have
got in Cambridge
a subject called a PSD in Sahaja Yoga.
There is one also, thanks to
some Americans, they’ve first
that in American university,
they have also accepted in New York.
So you can imagine how far it has gone
in some places as far as the scientific
understanding of Sahaja Yoga is concerned.
But the basics have to be first understood.
If you understand the basic
that it is the compassion of God
that works it out and that we
have to be compassionate people.
I will tell you, as you’ve
seen today Dr Reeves,
he was a very influential man,
he’s done his PhDs in three subjects
and he is also a Doctor
and he was a diplomat, and
this and that, and when he
came to me he was riding
a very high horse but
after Realisation he is so changed,
he’s become such a beautiful person.
He is so changed, all his temperament,
and everything changed, he
is such a nice person now
that people can’t believe he is the same.
You change in such a way
that you become a personality
which is magnetic and loving,
and affectionate, patient, tolerant
and peaceful personality.
Now also we are having some schools,
even in Australia we have
a school for children,
and the report of the school was thus
that the children are extremely peaceful,
extremely obedient and very disciplined.
They will not take to drugs, they
will not take to wrong things,
they will  not do thieving,
we don’t have to tell them,
they have no temptations,
they are satisfied souls, they
are not going to nag you,
they are not going to bother you.
They are going to look after you
and they are going to respect.
This is what comes out
of Sahaja Yoga schools.
We are having schools
even in Switzerland
and everywhere we have
schools for such children
and it is amazing how the children are.
They are beautiful children,
extremely beautiful.
As the human beings
become beautiful
in their own glory they
rise the children also
and children really are remarkable,
remarkable people. If you
see them you’ll be amazed.
Everyone you’ll find is the same and talks
like some great saint like Kabira
or Nanaka, they talk so big.
We cannot understand how
these little, little things
have so much of sense.
For example, one more
thing I’ll tell you
about my grandchild
which was the youngest,
she was about three years of age and
she told her mother, “Mother, you
are now practising homoeopathy,
you were born in allopathy,
then you’re practising homoeopathy,
then you’ll practice jumbopathy,
then will be cambopathy.
But I will never
do all these things
because I was born in God
and God will cure me
and I live in God.”
So she said ,"Why not you...". The mother
said, “Why not, you may also change.”
She said, “How can I?
Because God never changes.”
What a fundamental understanding
about life and this is what happens.
And even an ordinary
fisherman you meet who is a realised soul,
if you meet an ordinary bullock cart driver ….
Once I was going with a bullock
cart, you all know a bullock cart,
and he was talking I felt this is some
great Markandeya or
some great William Blake
is talking to me, such
beautiful things he was saying.
So I said, “How do you
know all these things?
You’ve never been to any
university.” He said, “Why?
I know because I know God,
because it is all in my brain,
it all comes to me.”
So all the subtler things that
are in your brain come to light
and you become really a
very subtle personality
but first of all you
must assume the power.
So you become collectively conscious,
your attention becomes
collectively conscious.
Then you become the truth.
Because you know the truth
you become the truth.
You cannot tolerate anything
that is not the truth.
All falsehood drops out,
all corruption drops out,
all kinds of funny things we
do out of insecurity drop out,
our health improves.
So what happens to us: that we
become a personality
who has got the truth within but
we are very humble. We
are extremely humble,
we do not want to push people into it,
we do not want to force
them anything. But we see
the truth clearly, as a witness
we know this is the truth
and nothing, nothing can disturb us.
As in the life of Christ, you see,
he saw a prostitute being stoned. Now
Christ, a saint, a great divine personality,
had nothing to do with a
prostitute, they’ve nothing to do.
But when he saw a
prostitute being stoned
he stood up with the truth,
in his strength he
stands up and he says,
“Those who have not sinned
can throw a stone at me.”
and nobody did that.
Because he knew the truth, they
could see the strength of truth.
All great men of the world have used
this strength of truth in their lives.
Most of them have been realised souls.
I can tell you so many names: like
Abraham Lincoln was a realised soul,
Mozart was a realised soul,
so many people you can know
that they were a realised soul
though we do not do know that
they were realised souls.
Like our Lord Mountbatten
was a realised soul,
Barbara Cartland is a realised soul.
All these people are realised souls,
they know they are realized souls
but they don’t want to talk about it
because they think that
if we say anything
people will think we are trying
to push our ways onto them.
They enjoy their Realisation.
But Realisation is no more a private thing,
it is no more a private thing, it is
a public thing.
It has to go to the society,
it has to do good to others,
it has to help others;
it has not to just
stick onto your goodness that now
you have a good place to live in,
you have got beautiful
children and a wife
so now you be comfortable.
No, you will not.
Like the lady today
interviewed asked me,
“You have such a nice
house, such a nice husband,
you are so comfortable so
why are you travelling?”
I said, “First of all, my
husband has no objection.
He thinks that this is the only
way the world can be transformed.
Though he is so highly placed in life
he is convinced no use
having organisations
in the name of United
Nations and all that,
they are not united.”
But unless and until the Spirit
dawns upon you, you cannot be united.
And this is what he has
realised and he says
that, “It’s alright if you have to
travel I have nothing to say.”
because he himself travels so much.
He has no objection to do
that, he understands me
because he has seen the
transformation taking place
so well. When I was just married he said,
“I believe, I know that you
are something very different
we call it Auliya to a realised
soul. "You are an Auliya
and you are not bothered
about anything because
you are like that.
But I can’t believe that
you can transform others
to your state, you
cannot.” But now he says,
“I cannot be dishonest anymore,
I see the transformation.
People have given up all their bad habits,
have become such beautiful people.”
If you see their faces, they’re shining
like lotuses.
You see them at the
airport, they stand out
by their beautiful behaviour,
the decorum, the
decency that they have.
It is such a beautiful life they are leading.
I want all of you to
lead that beautiful life.
But do not keep it for your private use,
do not keep it only
for your relations,
for your own family but give it to others.
Unless and until you
gave it has no meaning.
Now the third thing that happens
to a human being as
Self-realisation comes in:
that he becomes
the enjoyer of joy.
We have no idea of joy.
To us if our ego is pampered,
if somebody is nice to us,
they give us nice things
or something, our ego is
pampered if it is happening.
If somebody insults us we feel unhappy.
But the state of joy has no duality.
When you do all these things you are
either on the ego or on the superego,
moving from one to another. But when
you are in joy you are just
witnessing the whole thing,
the whole thing just
works as a formless joy.
But that formless joy has a feeling
within yourself also, you
get a feeling of that joy
and that feeling sometimes I
describe it as if something very soothing
comes over you like Grace and you
are filled with that soothing.
The whole being becomes soothed,
you feel extremely joyous.
You cannot explain
a feeling.
Kabira said, “Now I’ve become
intoxicated with joy, what can I talk,
how can I talk!” You
see a person who cannot
talk when he is
eating the nectar of love,
how can you talk about it.
You better eat and enjoy
because you must taste it.
How can I tell you what
is this taste unless
and until you have this taste.
Supposing I talk to you about something
you have never seen,
how will you know?
So better see it
yourself. In the same way
everybody who
experiences it will know
that it is
a thing of joy which cannot be explained.
You become a peaceful person,
you become a joyous person and for the
first time you start enjoying another
personality in its pure form.
Normally we enjoy another personality,
we think we enjoy,
but we are happy with
another person because
we have some lust or
greed, or some sort
of a relationship with that person,
or some sort of a thought, that you do
not feel the inner being of that person.
But when you feel that subtle being
you are so full of joy that you
do not know what is happening,
how you are feeling.
But for that you have to
develop that sensitivity.
Once I was in Calcutta
and we had gone and
stayed in a hotel;
and normally I don’t like to
stay in a hotel but the owner
was a Sahaja Yogi so I stayed there.
And the owner came to see me
and he was just touching my feet
because in India the custom is
that you must touch the feet
of a saint and of your
guru. So he touched my feet
and there were three, four other
Sahaja Yogis staying in other rooms.
They suddenly felt
tremendous joy on their
Sahasrara and they started
off to my room, all of
them from different rooms.
They just came rushing, “What’s
happening, Mother?”  I said, “Why?”
“We felt tremendous joy.”
I said, “See this one.”
So they put their hands to him, “Aaahh”
as if some great fragrance
of beauty is coming on them
and when they felt, “Aaaahhaaa,
what is happening?
I said, “Look at that, you
are also the same type.”
And then they started
enjoying each other.
So there is no quarrel,
there is no fighting,
there is no harsh words, nothing.
You even don’t talk much but you are
enjoying each other in pure love,
not with any lust, greed
or any relationship,
this funny relationships that we have developed.
Two persons cannot genuinely love,
that all finishes off.
Thousands of them
love each other in
such a way that it is ...
it is really impossible to
believe how things happen.
There is a Muslim boy who was in Algeria.
And in Algeria the fundamentalists
started taking over
and the boys got very much worried
and they all become communists because they
thought this God business is horrible,
these fundamentalists are ruining
Iran, Iraq and we’ll be also ruined.
So they became all communists, about
five hundred of them, educated boys.
And this one was an engineer,
aeronautical engineer, very intelligent.
He came to London and some how or
other he came to Sahaja Yoga.
He got his Realisation
and then he went and
told them that no, there is God,
no doubt, we have to find
him within ourselves.
He gave Realisation to
all five hundred of them
and now in Algeria
which is a Muslim country
we have many Sahaja Yogis, even
some barristers are Sahaja Yogis,
so many are there because they are
people of very sharp intelligence.
I find they have that pure intelligence
in their heads to see the point,
that this is what it is.
And now this boy when he went
and told them about
this they were amazed
because they said that
this is within ourselves
and a one boy can do
that for five hundred so
why not we go across and do it to others.
And that’s how they are
spreading Sahaja Yoga everywhere.
So like one seed which is enlightened
can know
and give a big tree, in the same way
one person can give Realisation
to many people, thousands.
And you all have to only
know your own powers.
Do not limit it to
yourself, to your family,
to your surroundings but limit it to others.
When it comes to others
it works out faster
so you become the joy,
the source of joy.
Wherever you go people will like you,
they’ll enjoy your company.
They’ll say, "This person
is so much changed, he is
such a beautiful person.
How is it he’s become so nice?”
Everybody enjoys it.
This boy, particular boy, Muslim boy,
he once wanted, his mother
wanted to go to Mecca.
He said, “Alright. the Mecca is
now in London, let’s go there.”
And he brought his mother
to Mecca, that was London,
and he brought her to
me. And she said,
“Really, I never felt such
joy before going to Mecca,
the amount of joy I’m feeling here.”
So he said, “That’s it. I told you
that if you have to have the joy,
better come to the Mecca
which is real today.”
That’s what it is, is that
you have to feel that subtle,
that beautiful
awareness that is within us,
just yet to be unfolding itself
which gives us the sensation,
the experience of feeling the joy.
This is what has to happen,
has happened to all of you
but please remember that you
have to establish yourself.
Do not fritter it away, it’s
a very precious thing.
You must respect your Self-realisation.
Because you don’t pay for it,
because you have not worked for it
you do not respect it also.
It’s a very sad thing.
But you must know
whatever you are today,
whatever your being is,
has come to there
without doing any work,
without paying for it
and it is so important.
In the same way your
Self-realisation is very important.
Tomorrow I’ll be leaving for Australia.
It’s very sad every time I leave the place
I feel very
concerned.
And a concern of a mother is like an ocean
that just tries to bubble out
the tears and I don’t
know what to say.
But I leave it to you
that you look after yourselves.
I’ll try to come again
next year to New Zealand.
By that time I hope you’ll
have many more people
here who are seekers being saved
and whom you’ll give Realisation yourself.
May God bless you all.
So now we have to just
again feel the experience.
For about ten minutes it will work out
and then
I hope you will make it convenient to
go to our
to go to our
centre. We have a centre here,
very beautiful centre, and
we have a person like Brian
who is a very good Sahaja Yogi,
very well equipped, very learned
and who will help you in every way.
We’ll give you the
address of the gentleman
and you all try to
do the needful.
You must know that
Sahaja Yoga is not
for useless, frivolous
people, it’s not, it’s
meant for special people.
It’s a special thing meant for special
and not for people who are cheap,
who are frivolous, who are
good for nothing. So you,
those who get Realisation,
know that you are special
people chosen by God
his gift has come to you
and try to develop it.
It’s not like any other
nonsensical thing that
you know of, like
paying so much money you
become a member and all that.
You have to become
yourself a Sahaja Yogi,
it is within yourself but
it is a state which you have to achieve.
Unless and until you achieve your state
you cannot just become Mother’s disciple
or you can wear some dress. No, it is
something that happens
to you within yourself.
So first, that has happened
yesterday to you,
that you’ve became thoughtlessly aware.
This is called as Nirvichar Samadhi.
This happens when the Kundalini
rests above the Agnya chakra.
You did feel the thoughtless
awareness yesterday.
Now the second state will
be, is called as the
doubtless awareness which is
called as a Nirvikalpa Samadhi.
This is all written down in
all the scriptures everywhere
that these things happen.
Those of you who also talk of yoga
must know that Patanjali
who wrote the all of Yoga
from which they’ve taken a wee bit
and doing all these practices,
has at length, he has
described what happens to you
when you get into the samadhi state:
the first is the thoughtless
awareness and the second one
is a doubtless awareness.
Now this doubtless
awareness is not mental
that you have no doubts, that’s not the point.
At the doubtless awareness point
you start giving Realization
to others, you start
curing people, you start knowing
the knowledge by yourself
and that is the state one must achieve.
Once you achieve that state
then you are perfected.
Like a little seed which has sprouted
is very delicate. And this seed
which has sprouted has
to be looked after and
that seed has to be
taken in such a way that it requires
all the attention, all
the respect. And then
when it is grows into a proper tree
you don’t have to worry.
Then you become the tree
of love and compassion
and so many come
and sit under this tree to
enjoy that beauty that you are.
So today again we’ll have the same
experience we had to again
to establish our Realisation.
Now I have to make one
humble request again
that we have to take out our shoes
to touch the Mother Earth,
it’s important just to
touch our Mother Earth
we must take out our shoes, if
possible, it will be a good idea.
Now you have to just put
your both the hands
towards me to begin with
just both the hands towards me.
Now this hand represents
the left side and this
side represents the
right side, means
this (left side) represents your
desire and the right is your action.
So it is you who has to raise your Kundalini.
I am not going to raise it.
It is you who must learn
how to raise your own Kundalini
and manoeuvre the power yourself.
So the first thing is to put the left hand
towards me like this, just like this.
You have to put the hand
towards me like this,
on your lap. Sit comfortably putting the
left hand on your left lap
towards me like this.
With the right hand you have to move,
you have to move your
different centres
which is very simple. First of all
you’ll have to put the right hand on
your heart where resides the Spirit.
Then you’ll have to put ... I’ll
tell you later on one by one,
on the upper part of
the stomach where resides
the principle of mastery
and then in the lower
part of the abdomen
where resides the technique,
the knowledge of the technique
of manoeuvring this power.
Because, as I told you yesterday,
yoga means union with the Divine
and another thing yoga
means – the trick,
or the yukti as they call it,
deftness to handle the
power that flows through you,
to understand how to protect yourself,
how to raise your Kundalini,
how to work it out. That part
is called as pure knowledge
and that, the centre it resides
in the lower part of your
abdomen on the left-hand side.
For information, in the Universe
it is your country, New
Zealand, that works it out.
Can you imagine that you
stand for auspiciousness,
this country stands for
auspiciousness, it emits auspiciousness
for the whole universe.
It’s such a great country you are
living here that emits auspiciousness.
So now
you put your right hand
on your heart, as I said,
then on the abdomen lower
and then you go back again
and then you put your
right hand on your neck,
on the corner of the neck
and the shoulder, a little backward like
this because this is very important.
Some people do it from this
side. Do it from this side,
in front you should bring
it and press it hard,
this is very important. This centre is
mostly spoiled in the
West because people have
a habit of feeling guilty.
I don’t know why they feel so guilty.
So at the very outset I tell everybody
that you tell yourself
you are not guilty because
you are the temple of God and you
must have full confidence in you.
Not to feel guilty at all, it’s very important.
You have to sit with a very
pleasant disposition that
you are going to enter
into the Kingdom of God.
Then the hand goes here,
upon the forehead,
then goes at the back here and then
this palm
has to be pressed on
the fontanel bone area
where you had a soft
bone as a child and
you have to press it
clockwise like this.
Now I’ll just tell you
in a very simple way
but you have to keep your eyes shut.
Please take out your spectacles also
because this helps the eyesight.
So please take out your spectacles,
don’t put it in the pockets because
you have to put the hand on the heart.
So please close your eyes now
just, and don’t open your eyes.
At any cost you should
not open your eyes
because this is Antar Yoga, it is an
inner happening that takes place.
For that if you open your eyes
then the attention goes
out so please keep your
eyes shut till you have
achieved your Realisation.
I’ll tell you when to open your eyes.
Now put your right hand on your heart,
right hand on your heart
and left hand towards
me. Everyone should do it,
pay attention to yourself, don’t
worry anybody or anybody else.
Just now think of yourself.
Put your right hand on your heart.
Here resides the Spirit.
So first you ask me a question,
a very fundamental question. You can call me
“Mother” or you can call me “Shri Mataji”,
whatever suits you,
Shri Mataji, am I the Spirit?”
Ask a question three times.
Inside your heart ask a question,
“Shri Mataji, am I the Spirit?
Mother, am I the Spirit?”
This question relates to another thing,
that if you are your Spirit
you are your master,
you are your guide, you are your guru.
So now you put this right hand in the upper
part of the abdomen on the left-hand side
and press it. Here is
the centre of the Guru.
So now here you ask a question,
“Mother, am I my own guru?
Mother, am I my own master?
Mother, am I my own guide?”
ask the question ten times,
anyone that you want to ask.
Ten times because as I told
you there are ten valences
and once you have
awakened those ten valences you’ve
become the master, the guru.
Please ask three times.
Now
take this right hand
in the lower part of your abdomen,
on the left hand side;
lower part of your left hand side stomach.
Please put this hand and press it, little bit.
At this centre resides, as I told you,
is the technique, is the true knowledge,
the pure knowledge. But
I cannot cross your freedom,
so you have to say,
you have to
say it that you want
the true knowledge.
I cannot force on you so please say,
“Mother, I want true knowledge.”
Shuddha Vidya. “I want pure knowledge.
Please give me, Mother please
give me pure knowledge”.
You have to say it six times.
This is the way you actually
awaken the Kundalini to begin with.
“Please give me pure knowledge.”
Put both the hands  on the ground
in a parallel way, don’t touch each other
and please touch the Mother Earth.
Sit very comfortably (Warren interrupts
"With your feet on") No, no, no.
with your feet, with your feet. Touch
the Mother Earth with your feet.
Now, with your feet.
Say it six times
as a request because I cannot
force it on you, you have to ask for it.
Now raise this right hand again back
onto the upper part of the abdomen.
As the Kundalini has started moving
now you have to assert
yourself with full confidence.
At this point you have to say ten times,
“Mother, I am my own master.
Mother, I am my own guru.
Mother, I am my guide.” Say it ten times.
Assert with full confidence.
Put the hand on the right hand side
of your stomach
on the left hand side.
You put your right hand on the
left-hand side of your stomach,
on the upper part, on the upper part,
that is the centre for the Guru.
So here you have to say ten times
with full confidence,
“Mother, I am my own master.
I am my own guru.”
Now raise your right hand
to your heart again.
Now at the point of heart
you have to again
assert and accept with confidence
and say, “Mother,
I am the Spirit.” Say it twelve times,
“Mother, I am the Spirit.” which you are,
just you must assert.
You must accept, “I am the Spirit.”
Have full confidence in yourself,
you are not to feel guilty
at all and you have to say
that, “Mother, I am the Spirit.”
So the Kundalini rises with that assertion.
Now put the right hand
on the shoulder
near the neck, press it hard.
This is the centre... from
the front, as I said,
not from the backside,
from the front. And now
press it hard, this is a very important centre
because, as I told you,
people who feel guilty
have this problem and the
Kundalini doesn’t rise.
So please say sixteen times,
“Mother, I am not guilty at all.”
We have to know that
God is the ocean of love
and is the ocean of compassion
but above all he is the ocean of forgiveness,
he is the ocean. And
whatever we may do
he is quite capable and powerful to forgive us.
We must learn to forgive
ourselves first of all,
we don’t know how to
forgive ourselves.
So please forgive yourself
and say sixteen times,
“Mother, I am not guilty at all.”
Because, as I said, you
are the temple of God,
how can you be guilty?
Sixteen times.
Better?  [Warren: "Um it's still there."]
Still there, it's still
there, please go on saying
with full understanding.
From your heart please say it.
Because if you have
this centre catching
it will be difficult for me, for
you, to get your Realisation.
So please say it from your heart,
from your heart.
Hmm better.
Those who still think they are guilty
should punish themselves
by saying it 108 times,
that would be a better idea.
Be pleasant about it, be
pleasant about yourself.
Why do you want to condemn
yourself for nothing at all?
God has not created you
to condemn yourself.
Ha!
Now raise your right hand
to your forehead across
and press it from both the ends
as if when we have a
headache we press it.
Just press it and here you have to say,
“Mother, I forgive everyone.”
As soon as it works out
I will know that you have said it.
How many times is not the point.
Press it hard. “Mother,
I forgive everyone.”
Now many people feel that to forgive….
Yesterday everybody who did not get
Realisation had not forgiven people.
I told you that it’s a myth.
You do not do anything when you
forgive or when you don’t forgive.
Only thing when you don’t forgive
you play into the hands of the people
who are trying to do you wrong.
So why do you want to play into
the hands of the wrong people?
Just say, “I forgive” and
you’ll be clearly out of it.
It’s only you who is maintaining
that by not forgiving.
It’s a myth, it’s absolutely
a myth. But just say it
that, “Mother, I forgive everyone.”
Nothing is difficult because
you are not doing about it,
just by saying what do you do?